---
layout: single
title:  "Test of Time Award"
date:   2020-02-24 23:59:59 +0200
categories: awards
---

The CONCUR conference and the IFIP 1.8 Working Group on Concurrency Theory are
happy to announce the first edition of the CONCUR Test-of-Time Award. The
purpose of the award is to recognize important achievements in Concurrency
Theory that were published at the CONCUR conference and have stood the test of
time. All papers published in CONCUR between 1990 and 1995 are eligible.

The award winners for the  CONCUR ToT Awards 2020 have been selected by a Jury
composed of Luca Aceto (Chair), Jos Baeten, Patricia Bouyer-Decitre, Holger
Hermanns, and Alexandra Silva. The list of papers selected for the  CONCUR ToT
Awards 2020, together with their citations, are:

## Period 1990-1993

__Rob van Glabbeek__. The Linear Time-Branching Time Spectrum
    [[certificate]](./assets/images/certificate-van-glabbeek.pdf)

Citation: The companion papers on "The Linear Time-Branching Time Spectrum",
published by Rob van Glabbeek at CONCUR 1990 and 1993, jointly receive one
award for offering a highly influential taxonomy of the menagerie of process
semantics, both in a setting where every system action is observable and in the
presence of silent moves. Each of the plethora of studied semantics comes
equipped with a variety of elegant characterisations in terms of modal logics,
testing scenarios, relations, and complete axiomatisations. The encyclopedic
nature of the above-mentioned papers has made them a must read for researchers
in concurrency theory for nearly 30 years.

Check the [interview with Rob van
Glabbeek](https://processalgebra.blogspot.com/2020/04/an-interview-with-rob-van-glabbeek.html)
by Luca Aceto.

__Søren Christensen, Hans Hüttel and Colin Stirling__.
    Bisimulation Equivalence is Decidable for all Context-Free Processes
   [[certificate]](./assets/images/certificate-christensen-et-al.pdf)

Citation: The paper "Bisimulation Equivalence is Decidable for all Context-Free
Processes", published by Søren Christensen, Hans Hüttel and Colin Stirling at
CONCUR 1992, receives one award for extending and simplifying the seminal
result by Baeten, Bergstra and Klop, who proved the decidability of
bisimilarity over normed context-free processes. The CONCUR'92 paper has paved
the way to further decidability and complexity results for a variety of classes
of infinite-state processes. This includes the 2-EXPTIME algorithm for
bisimilarity over BPA presented by Burkart, Caucal and Steffen in a paper
published at MFCS 1995, and the work by Senizergues in papers at FOCS 1998 and
in the SIAM Journal on Computing in 2005,  presenting decidability results for
all "equational graphs" with finite out-degree.

Check the [interview with Hans
Hüttel](https://processalgebra.blogspot.com/2020/06/an-interview-with-hans-huttel-concur.html)
by Luca Aceto.


## Period 1992-1995

__Roberto Segala and Nancy Lynch__.
Probabilistic simulations for probabilistic processes
   [[certificate]](./assets/images/certificate-segala-and-lynch.pdf)

Citation: The paper "Probabilistic simulations for probabilistic processes",
published by Roberto Segala and Nancy Lynch at CONCUR 1994, receives one award
for introducing the 'simple' probabilistic automata model. Unlike earlier
attempts to embrace probabilities, transition targets here are probability
distributions over states, and this makes it possible to lift core process
algebraic results in a very elegant manner. Probabilistic automata have quickly
been recognised as the pivotal link between classical concurrency theory and
the theory of discrete-state Markov processes. They have become the central
subjects of probabilistic model checking, and are echoed in a range of very
influential modelling formalisms including probabilistic timed automata,
probabilistic hybrid automata, and Markov automata.



Check the [interview with Roberto Segala and Nancy
Lynch](https://processalgebra.blogspot.com/2020/04/an-interview-with-nancy-lynch-and.html)
by Luca Aceto.

__Davide Sangiorgi__. A Theory of Bisimulation for the pi-Calculus
   [[certificate]](./assets/images/certificate-sangiorgi.pdf)

Citation: The paper "A Theory of Bisimulation for the pi-Calculus", published
by Davide Sangiorgi in CONCUR 1993, receives one award for introducing the
notion of open bisimilarity, which, unlike early and late bisimilarity, is a
congruence for the pi-calculus. Open bisimilarity makes it possible to view
most names as uninstantiated variables, and this allows for the development of
efficient tools based on a kind of symbolic state-space exploration. Open
bisimilarity and tools based on it have, for instance, played an important role
in research on cryptographic protocols modelled using extensions of the
pi-calculus. For a recent example, Horne has used open bisimilarity as the
appropriate way to model the capabilities of an attacker trying to get
confidential information, with a real-world application to finding and fixing a
privacy flaw in e-passports presented by Filimonov et al. at ESORICS 2019.

Check the [interview with Davide
Sangiorgi](https://processalgebra.blogspot.com/2020/04/an-interview-with-davide-sangiorgi.html)
by Luca Aceto.



